# chromatoPychromatoPy is an open-source Python package designed to streamline the integration and analysis of High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) data. It features flexible multi-Gaussian and single Gaussian fitting algorithms to detect, fit, and integrate peaks from chromatographic data, enabling efficient analysis and processing of complex datasets. Note, interactive integration requires internal spike standard (Trace 744).## Features- Flexible Gaussian Fitting: Supports both single and multi-Gaussian peak fitting algorithms.- Data Integration: Integrates chromatographic peak data for precise quantification.- Customizable Analysis: Allows for the adjustment of fitting parameters to accommodate various peak shapes.- Input Support: Works with HPLC data converted to .csv format using a built in function that utilizes the package "rainbow". ## InstallationTo install chromatoPy from the GitHub repository, you can use the following pip command:```bashpip install git+https://github.com/GerardOtiniano/chromatoPy.git```## Requirements- Python 3.12.4 or higher- Dependencies are automatically installed when you install the package:- numpy==1.26.4- pandas==2.2.2- scikit-learn==1.4.2- scipy==1.13.1- matplotlib==3.8.4- ainbow==2.8.0## UsageOnce installed, you can start using chromatoPy to analyze your HPLC chromatographic data. Below is a basic example demonstrating how to use the package to load and analyze data:Example Usageimport chromatopy```python# Convert chromatography data to .csv fileschromatopy.hplc_to_csv()# Run interactive analyzerchromatopy.hplc_integration()# Calculate and assign indiceschromatopy.assign_indices()```## Input Data RequirementschromatoPy expects HPLC data to be in .csv format. You can convert your raw HPLC results using openChrom, an open-source chromatography tool, and save the results as .csv files.## ContributingContributions to chromatoPy are welcome! If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository.## LicenseThis project is not licensed. ## ContactFor questions or inquiries, please contact:- Author: Gerard Otiniano- Email: gerardot@buffalo.edu